projects.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Projects
---

Here is a list of my open source projects created in the hope that they will be
useful.

## atMETEO

atMETEO is a project for collecting and measuring weather related data from
different sensors. The data is being collected by an ATmega based target and
sent to a computer for further processing.

* [More information]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2015-05-20-atmeteo %})
* [Documentation](https://fetzerch.github.io/atMETEO)
* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/atMETEO)

## fritzcollectd

fritzcollectd is a plugin for [collectd](http://collectd.org/) to monitor AVM
FRITZ!Box routers.

* [More information]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2014-08-23-fritzcollectd %})
* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/fritzcollectd)

## sync_music

This program allows you to synchronize your music library for the usage on
primitive music players that don't support the diversity of your collection.

* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/sync_music)

## pvr.mythtv.cmyth

The Kodi/XBMC PVR plugin for MythTV (0.25 - 0.27) based on
[libcmyth](https://github.com/cmyth/cmyth).

* [Documentation](http://wiki.kodi.tv/index.php?title=MythTV_PVR)
* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/xbmc-pvr-addons)

Note that the development of the plugin for MythTV 0.28+ is being continued by
[janbar](https://github.com/janbar) as
[pvr.mythtv](https://github.com/janbar/pvr.mythtv).

# Open source contributions

In addition to the projects above, here is a collection of open source
contributions worth mentioning.

## Kodi/XBMC Media Center

[Kodi/XBMC](http://kodi.tv) is a popular open source media player application.
I've contributed various bug fixes and smaller features mainly in the area of
PVR.

* Kodi/XBMC:
  [Pull Requests](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pulls?q=author%3Afetzerch) /
  [Commits](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/commits?author=fetzerch)
* PVR implementation before it has been merged into the official repository:
  [Pull Requests]
  (https://github.com/opdenkamp/xbmc/pulls?q=author%3Afetzerch) /
  [Commits](https://github.com/opdenkamp/xbmc/commits/master?author=fetzerch)

## Jenkins Job Builder

[Jenkins Job Builder](http://ci.openstack.org/jenkins-job-builder) is a tool
that simplifies the configuration of Jenkins CI jobs. I've contributed the
integration for the Valgrind and Clang scan-build publisher plugins that I'm
using for some of the projects mentioned on this page.

* Jenkins Job Builder: [Gerrit Changes]
  (https://review.openstack.org/#/q/owner:%22Christian+Fetzer%22,n,z) /
  [Commits](https://github.com/openstack-infra/jenkins-job-builder/commits?author=fetzerch)

Commit message:

projects: Update Kodi contributions section
Mention Team-Kodi membership including current work and move pvr addon
section into Kodi section.

projects.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Projects
---

Here is a list of my open source projects created in the hope that they will be
useful.

## atMETEO

atMETEO is a project for collecting and measuring weather related data from
different sensors. The data is being collected by an ATmega based target and
sent to a computer for further processing.

* [More information]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2015-05-20-atmeteo %})
* [Documentation](https://fetzerch.github.io/atMETEO)
* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/atMETEO)

## fritzcollectd

fritzcollectd is a plugin for [collectd](http://collectd.org/) to monitor AVM
FRITZ!Box routers.

* [More information]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2014-08-23-fritzcollectd %})
* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/fritzcollectd)

## sync_music

This program allows you to synchronize your music library for the usage on
primitive music players that don't support the diversity of your collection.

* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/sync_music)

# Open source contributions

In addition to the projects above, here is a collection of open source
contributions worth mentioning.

## Kodi Media Center

[Kodi](http://kodi.tv) (formerly known as XBMC) is a popular open source media
player application. As long time Kodi user, I've contributed various bug fixes
and smaller features mainly in the area of PVR. Since January 2016 I'm
an official member of Team-Kodi and currently working on Kodi's CMake based
build system.

* Kodi:
  [Pull Requests](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/pulls?q=author%3Afetzerch) /
  [Commits](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc/commits?author=fetzerch)
* PVR implementation before it has been merged into the official repository:
  [Pull Requests]
  (https://github.com/opdenkamp/xbmc/pulls?q=author%3Afetzerch) /
  [Commits](https://github.com/opdenkamp/xbmc/commits/master?author=fetzerch)

### MythTV PVR addon (pvr.mythtv.cmyth)

My involvement with Kodi (still called XBMC that time) started in 2012 with
maintaining the first version of Kodi's MythTV PVR plugin. The plugin supported
MythTV 0.25 - 0.27 and was based on [libcmyth](https://github.com/cmyth/cmyth).

* [Documentation](http://wiki.kodi.tv/index.php?title=MythTV_PVR)
* [GitHub repository](https://github.com/fetzerch/xbmc-pvr-addons)

The development of the plugin for MythTV 0.28+ is being continued by
[janbar](https://github.com/janbar) as
[pvr.mythtv](https://github.com/janbar/pvr.mythtv).

## Jenkins Job Builder

[Jenkins Job Builder](http://ci.openstack.org/jenkins-job-builder) is a tool
that simplifies the configuration of Jenkins CI jobs. I've contributed the
integration for the Valgrind and Clang scan-build publisher plugins that I'm
using for some of the projects mentioned on this page.

* Jenkins Job Builder: [Gerrit Changes]
  (https://review.openstack.org/#/q/owner:%22Christian+Fetzer%22,n,z) /
  [Commits](https://github.com/openstack-infra/jenkins-job-builder/commits?author=fetzerch)
